# Flutter CLI

The Flutter CLI (Command Line Interface) is a powerful tool that allows developers to interact with the Flutter framework and perform various tasks from the command line. Here are some commonly used Flutter CLI commands:

* Create a new Flutter project:
```bash 
flutter create <project_name>
```
This command creates a new Flutter project with the specified name.
* Run the Flutter application:
``` bash
flutter run
```
This command builds and runs the Flutter application on the connected device or emulator.
* List connected devices:

``` bash
flutter devices
```
This command lists all the connected devices (emulators, simulators, or physical devices) available for running the Flutter application.

* Upgrade Flutter SDK:

``` bash
flutter upgrade
```
This command upgrades the Flutter SDK to the latest stable version.
* Get dependencies:
``` bash 
flutter pub get
```
This command fetches the dependencies listed in the pubspec.yaml file and downloads them into your project.
* Run tests:
``` bash
flutter test
```
This command runs the unit tests defined in your Flutter project.
* Build an APK or App Bundle:
``` bash
flutter build apk
```
``` bash
flutter build appbundle
```
These commands build the APK (Android) or App Bundle (Android) for releasing your Flutter application.


These are just a few examples of the Flutter CLI commands available. You can explore more commands and options by running flutter --help or visiting the Flutter documentation for detailed information on each command.

Note: Make sure you have Flutter SDK installed and added to your system's PATH before using the Flutter CLI.













