## Inheritance in Dart

Inheritance is a fundamental concept in object-oriented programming that allows you to create new classes based on existing classes. In Dart, you can use inheritance to create a class hierarchy where the derived classes inherit properties and behaviors from the base class.

### Creating a Subclass

To create a subclass in Dart, you use the `extends` keyword followed by the name of the base class. The subclass inherits all the members (properties and methods) of the base class. Here's an example:

```dart
class Animal {
  void eat() {
    print('The animal is eating');
  }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
  void bark() {
    print('The dog is barking');
  }
}
```
In the above example, we have a base class Animal with a method eat(). We then create a subclass Dog using the extends keyword. The Dog class inherits the eat() method from the Animal class and defines its own method bark().

### Using Inheritance
Once you have defined a subclass, you can create objects of that subclass and access both the inherited members and the members defined in the subclass. Here's an example:
```dart
void main() {
  Dog dog = Dog();
  dog.eat();  // Accessing inherited method
  dog.bark(); // Accessing subclass method
}

```
In the above example, we create an object dog of type Dog. We can access the eat() method inherited from the Animal class using the dog object. We can also access the bark() method defined in the Dog class.

Inheritance allows you to create specialized classes that inherit and extend the functionality of a base class. It promotes code reuse and helps in creating more modular and maintainable code.