## Interfaces and Abstract Classes in Dart

In Dart, interfaces and abstract classes provide mechanisms for defining contracts that classes can implement or extend. They allow you to define a set of methods and properties that must be implemented by the implementing or extending classes.

### Interfaces

Interfaces in Dart are implicit. Any class can act as an interface, and other classes can implement them. To implement an interface, a class needs to provide an implementation for all the methods and properties defined in the interface.

Here's an example of defining and implementing an interface in Dart:

```dart
class Printable {
  void printData();
}

class Book implements Printable {
  String title;

  Book(this.title);

  @override
  void printData() {
    print('Printing book: $title');
  }
}

void main() {
  Book book = Book('The Dart Programming Language');
  book.printData(); // Prints "Printing book: The Dart Programming Language"
}
```
In the above example, we define an interface Printable with a method printData(). The Book class implements the Printable interface by providing an implementation for the printData() method.

## Abstract Classes
Abstract classes in Dart are classes that cannot be instantiated directly but can be used as base classes for other classes. They can contain abstract methods, which are method declarations without implementations. Concrete classes that extend an abstract class must provide implementations for all the abstract methods.

Here's an example of defining an abstract class and extending it:
```dart
abstract class Shape {
  void draw();

  void calculateArea();
}

class Circle extends Shape {
  double radius;

  Circle(this.radius);

  @override
  void draw() {
    print('Drawing a circle');
  }

  @override
  void calculateArea() {
    double area = 3.14 * radius * radius;
    print('Area of circle: $area');
  }
}

void main() {
  Circle circle = Circle(5);
  circle.draw(); // Prints "Drawing a circle"
  circle.calculateArea(); // Prints "Area of circle: 78.5"
}

```
In the above example, we define an abstract class Shape with abstract methods draw() and calculateArea(). The Circle class extends the Shape class and provides implementations for the abstract methods.

Interfaces and abstract classes are important concepts in Dart that help in defining contracts and building modular and extensible code.