# Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)

Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm that organizes software design around objects, which are instances of classes. It provides a way to structure and manage code by focusing on objects and their interactions.

## Classes and Objects

In OOP, a class is a blueprint for creating objects. It defines the properties and behaviors that objects of that class will have. An object is an instance of a class, and it encapsulates data and functionality.

```dart
class Car {
  String brand;
  String model;
  int year;

  void drive() {
    print("Driving $brand $model");
  }
}

Car myCar = Car();
myCar.brand = "Toyota";
myCar.model = "Corolla";
myCar.year = 2022;

myCar.drive();  // Output: Driving Toyota Corolla
```
## Encapsulation
Encapsulation is the principle of hiding internal implementation details and providing a public interface to interact with an object. It helps in achieving data abstraction and protects the integrity of the object's data.

## Inheritance
Inheritance allows one class to inherit properties and methods from another class. It promotes code reuse and supports the concept of hierarchical relationships between classes.
```dart
class Animal {
  String name;
  
  void makeSound() {
    print("The animal makes a sound");
  }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
  void makeSound() {
    print("The dog barks");
  }
}

Dog myDog = Dog();
myDog.name = "Buddy";
myDog.makeSound();  // Output: The dog barks
```

## Polymorphism
Polymorphism enables objects of different classes to be treated as objects of a common superclass. It allows methods to be overridden in subclasses, providing different implementations while maintaining a common interface.
```dart
class Shape {
  void draw() {
    print("Drawing a shape");
  }
}

class Circle extends Shape {
  @override
  void draw() {
    print("Drawing a circle");
  }
}

class Rectangle extends Shape {
  @override
  void draw() {
    print("Drawing a rectangle");
  }
}

void drawShape(Shape shape) {
  shape.draw();
}

Shape circle = Circle();
Shape rectangle = Rectangle();

drawShape(circle);     // Output: Drawing a circle
drawShape(rectangle);  // Output: Drawing a rectangle

```
Object-Oriented Programming provides a modular and flexible approach to software development, promoting code reusability, maintainability, and scalability.

For more in-depth explanations and examples of OOP concepts, refer to resources such as "Object-Oriented Programming in Dart" by Kevin Moore.